ONYX-10152 : Design Token Schema (#2309)
cyberark/conjur: design/authenticators/authn_jwt/token_schema.md

| JWT Claims | https://auth0.com/docs/tokens/json-web-tokens/json-web-token-claims |

## Requirements
[//]: # "Elaborate on the issue you are writing a solution for"

1. Required fields
   1. In the authenticator policy, the user will have the ability to declare which claims must be in host annotations. As a result, also in the JWT token
   2. When sending an authentication request, the authenticator MUST validate those claims - existence and content 
2. Mapping 
   1. The user should have the ability to map a given "technical" claim name to a more familiar / business one - i.e, in git-lab. Instead of mentioning in the policy "sub" claim, the user will have the ability to mention "job"

## Solution
User will define the token schema variables in the authenticator policy. The variables will be checked in the JWT authentication request.

* The usage of this variables is optional and non mandatory. User can authenticate to JWT in the same way he authenticated in stage 1. Using the feature adds more security checks to the authentication.

### User Interface

#### Authenticator Policy

Two new variables will be added to the authenticator policy:

> * mandatory_claims

Reviewer: We didn't talked about naming it mandatory_host_claims? 
in case we will need to have "mandatory_clims" for the authenticator level in the future.. here it is for the host level..

Author: @hilagross what are the decided names?

Reviewer 2: i also prefer the name of the variable will contains `host` or `app` in continue to @benoaviram comment

Reviewer 3: - host_mandatory_claims
- mapping_claims

* claims_mapping

```yaml
    - !policy
    id: conjur/authn-jwt/VendorY
    body:
    - !webservice
    
    - !variable
      id: mandatory_claims
      
    - !variable
      id: claims_mapping
```

#### Variable Values Example

| Name             | Value                   | Description                                      |
| ---------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| mandatory_claims | branch, job, aud        | List of claims as they appear in host annotation |

> | claims_mapping   | {ref: branch, sub: job} | Mapping between host annotation to JWT claim     |

Reviewer 3: We decided without {}

Author: Done

> * For any claim mapped, we will add the host annotation to the `mandatory_claims` variable and not the JWT claim name.

Reviewer: I think that "use" will be better here.. we will not add it.. the user adds it.. we will use the mapped name instead

Author: ?

* The values above are examples and they can be any claims.

## Design
[//]: # "Add any diagrams, charts and explanations about the design aspect of the solution. Elaborate also about the expected user experience for the feature"

The following class diagram, represent the flow of checking the mandatory claims and the claim mapping.

### Class Diagrams

![image-20210711171238701](token-schema-class-diagram.png)

> ### Flow Explanation

Reviewer 3: What will be the flow for mapping that is not mandatory?
What happen to the flow if the claim doesn't exists or not familiar (as it is host claim - not jwt claim)?

When validate_restrictions is called in JWTVendorConfiguration class the following will happen as a result:

1. The `valitate_restrictions` function will call `CreateConstraintsFromPolicy` that create constraints object checking the hosts annotations.
   1. It will create instance of `NonEmptyConstraint` to check we have at least one host annotation.

>    2. It will call `LoadMAndatoryClaims` command class to load the list of mandatory claims for the `mandatory_claims` variable

Reviewer: a <- A

Author: ?

   3. It will create `RequiredContraint` object from it

> 2. The `validate_restrictions` functon will call `CreateValidatorFromPolicy` to create validator with the claims mapping loaded

Reviewer: function*

Reviewer 2: Why do we need this class `CreateValidatorFromPolicy` what her responsibility ?

You could directly create the `ValidateRestrictionOneToOne` which has a dependency of key mapping.
And maybe in the future when we will extend this functionality to more possibilities for example  `ValidateRestrictionWithConditions` or `ValidateRestrictionByRegex`
So you will need this extra layer of `CreateValidatorFromPolicy` to decide which object to create 

WDYT?

   1. It will call the `LoadClaimsMapping` command class to get dictionary between claim to annotation.
   2. It will create *ValidateRestrictionOneToOne* object and will return it
3. `ValidateResourceRestrictions` will be called with the contraints and the validator from the previous steps. This run will check the claims in the token and annotations. If anything wrong like a missing claim in the host annotation or claim with invalid value and error with be thrown and the authentication request will be denied.

## Backwards Compatibility
[//]: # "How will the design of this solution impact backwards compatibility? Address how you are going to handle backwards compatibility, if necessary"

> Token schema is not mandatory therfore the JWT authentication will remain backwards compatible.

Reviewer: What will happen for existing hosts ? 
if the user setup the JWT authenticator, then creates Host A and B. 
then, adds the above variables, what will happen to Host A and B? 
If they will fail to authenticate... then we aren't keeping the backward compatibility ..

Author: Added this to Open Questions

> Token schema is not mandatory therfore the JWT authentication will remain backwards compatible.

Reviewer 3: not sure we can use 'token schema' prase anymore, this is now 'mandatory fields and mapped claims' feature

## Affected Components

[//]: # "List all components that will be affected by your solution"
[//]: # "[Conjur Open Source/Enterprise, clients, integrations, etc.]"
[//]: # "and elaborate on the impacts. This list should include all"
[//]: # "downstream components that will need to be updated to consume"
[//]: # "new releases as these changes are implemented"

* JWT Authenticator

## Delivery Plan

| Mission                                          | Estimation |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ---------- |
| Support mandatory claims                         | 5 SP       |
| Support claims mapping                           | 5 SP       |
| Add status checks for token schema configuration | 2 SP       |
| Add Cucumber tests for token schema              | 5 SP       |

> ## Open Questions

Reviewer 3: I think we answered them today
please update this doc accordingly.

Author: Lets discuss it

[//]: # "Add any question that is still open. It makes it easier for the reader to have the open questions accumulated here instead of them being acattered along the doc"

* How the `claims_mapping` should look like
  * Option 1: A dictionary
    `{ref: branch, sub: job}`
  * Option 2: Just the paris
    `ref:branch, sub:job`
* What is the expected behaviour if we recive on of this standard claims in the `mandatory_claims` or `claims_mapping`
  * iss
  * iat
  * exp
  * nbf

## Definition of Done

- Solution designed is approved 
- Test plan is reviewed
- Acceptance criteria have been met
- Tests are implemented according to test plan 
- The behaviour is documented in Conjur Open Source and Enterprise
- All relevant components are released

## Solution Review
[//]: # "Relevant personas can indicate their design approval by approving the pull request"

| **Persona**        | **Name** |
|--------------------|----------|
| Team leader        |          |
| Product owner      |          |
| System architect   |          |
| Security architect |          |

> | QA architect       |          |

Reviewer 3: by order:
@benoaviram 
@hilagross 
@tzheleznyak 
@sashaCher 
@eladkug

# Solution Design - Authn JWT Token Schema

[//]: # "1. Design should be graphical-based and table-based - avoid long text explanations"
[//]: # "2. Design documents should not be updated after implementation"
[//]: # "3. Design decisions should be made before writing this document, and as such this document should not include options / choices"

## Table of Contents
[//]: # "You can use this tool to generate a TOC - https://ecotrust-canada.github.io/markdown-toc/"

- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Glossary](#glossary)
- [Useful Links](#useful-links)

> - [Requirments](#requirments)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [Requirments](#requirements)
```

- [Solution](#solution)
  * [User Interface](#user-interface)
    + [Authenticator Policy](#authenticator-policy)
    + [Variable Values Example](#variable-values-example)
- [Design](#design)
  * [Class Diagrams](#class-diagrams)
  * [Flow Explanation](#flow-explanation)
- [Backwards Compatibility](#backwards-compatibility)
- [Affected Components](#affected-components)
- [Delivery Plan](#delivery-plan)

> - [Delivery Plan](#delivery-plan-1)

Reviewer 4: two delivery plans? I would differentiate them somehow. Maybe according to different proposed flows?

Author: Good catch its mistake

- [Open Questions](#open-questions)
- [Definition of Done](#definition-of-done)
- [Solution Review](#solution-review)

> <small><i><a href='http://ecotrust-canada.github.io/markdown-toc/'>Table of contents generated with markdown-toc</a></i></small>

Reviewer 4: you can remove this :)

## Glossary

[//]: # "Describe terms that will be used throughout the design"
[//]: # "You can use this tool to generate a table - https://www.tablesgenerator.com/markdown_tables#"

| **Term**         | **Description**                                              |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | JWT Claims       | claims are pieces of information asserted about a subject    |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| JWT Claims       | Claims are pieces of information asserted about a subject    |
```

> | Host Annotation  | Defining of check that we should do on authentication request for host. In JWT authentication its a claim check. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Host Annotation  | Defines the checks that we should do on authentication request for host. In JWT authentication its a claim check. |
```

> | Mandatory Claims | JWT Claims that host must validate their existance and value |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Mandatory Claims | JWT-specific claims that a host must validate their existence and value |
```

| Claims Mapping   | Mapping between claim name and name of host annotation       |

> | Token Schema     | Combination of mandatory claims and claims mapping           |

Author: Removed the token schema line. We can use one of them.

## Useful Links
[//]: # "Add links that may be useful for the reader"

| **Name**   | **Link**                                                     |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| JWT Claims | https://auth0.com/docs/tokens/json-web-tokens/json-web-token-claims |

## Requirments
[//]: # "Elaborate on the issue you are writing a solution for"

1. Required fields

>    1. The user will have the ability to declare in the authenticator policy which claims must be in host annotations. And therefore also in the JWT token.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   1.  In the authenticator policy, the user will have the ability to declare which claims must be in host annotations. And therefore also in the JWT token.
```

Reviewer 4: >  And therefore also in the JWT token.

Not sure what this means. Please explain :)

Author: Any annotation in the host that authenticating again JWT authenticator we check it is a claim inside the token payload. If it doesn't we fail the authentication request. I meant here that if we verify that a claim in the host annotations it automatically means that we verify that it is in the decoded token

Reviewer 4: I suggest we make that clear. That the claims are checked inside the token's payload

> if we verify that a claim in the host annotations it automatically means that we verify that it is in the decoded token

great! suggest we add that :)

>    2. Upon authentication request the authenticator MUST validate those claims - existence and content 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   2. When sending an authentication request, the authenticator MUST validate those claims - existence and content 
```

Reviewer 4: as in we check the existence of the claims and the content?

Author: Yes

2. Mapping 

>    1. The user should have the ability to map a given "technical" claim name to a more familiar / business one - i.e, in git-lab - instead of mention in the policy "sub" claim, he will have the ability to mention "job"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   1. The user should have the ability to map a given "technical" claim name to a more familiar / business one - i.e, in git-lab. Instead of mentioning in the policy "sub" claim, the user will have the ability to mention "job"
```

## Solution
[//]: # "Elaborate on the solution you are suggesting in this page. Address the functional requirements and the non functional requirements that this solution is addressing. If there are a few options considered for the solution, mention them and explain why the actual solution was chosen over them. Add an execution plan when relevant. It doesn't have to be a full breakdown of the feature, but just a recommendation to how the solution should be approached."

> User with define the token schema variables in authenticator policy. They will be checked in the JWT authentication request.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
User will define the token schema variables in the authenticator policy. The variables will be checked in the JWT authentication request.
```

### User Interface

[//]: # "Describe user interface (including command structure, inputs/outputs, etc where relevant)"

#### Authenticator Policy

Two new variables will be added to the authenticator policy:

* mandatory_claims
* claims_mapping

```yaml
    - !policy
    id: conjur/authn-jwt/VendorY
    body:
    - !webservice
    
    - !variable
      id: mandatory_claims
      
    - !variable
      id: claims_mapping
```

#### Variable Values Example

| Name             | Value                   | Description                                      |
| ---------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |

> | mandatory_claims | branch, job, aud        | List of claims as they appear in host annotation |

Reviewer 5: Are "branch, job, aud" only an example ? Do you have a full list of values for mandatory claims ?

Author: These are examples

| claims_mapping   | {ref: branch, sub: job} | Mapping between host annotation to JWT claim     |

> For any claim being mapped we will add the host annotation to the `mandatory_claims` variable and not the JWT claim name.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For any claim mapped, we will add the host annotation to the `mandatory_claims` variable and not the JWT claim name.
```

## Design
[//]: # "Add any diagrams, charts and explanations about the design aspect of the solution. Elaborate also about the expected user experience for the feature"

> The following class diagram, represent the flow of checking the mandatory claims and the claim mapping.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following class diagram represents the flow of checking the mandatory claims and the claim mapping.
```

### Class Diagrams
[//]: # "Describe classes that are going to be added /changes and their immediate environment. Non-changed classes may be colored differently"

> ![image-20210711122753500](token-schema-class-diagram.png)

Reviewer 4: personal preference,
Make the diagram's boxes closer together and the lettering bigger, otherwise even if we expand it, it will be hard to read. See Oren's or my designs for example :)

Author: Great point. Fixed it

### Flow Explanation

> Upon validate_restrictions is called in JWTVendorConfiguration class these what would happen:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When validate_restrictions is called in JWTVendorConfiguration class the following will happen as a result:
```

Author: Done

> 1. The `valitate_restrictions` function will call `CreateConstraintsFromPolicy` that create constraints object checking the hosts annotations.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. The `validate_restrictions` function will call `CreateConstraintsFromPolicy` that create constraints object checking the hosts annotations.
```

>    1. It will create instance of `NonEmptyConstraint` to check we have at least one host annotation.

Reviewer 4: you can remove all the `It`s and just leave `Will`

   2. It will call `LoadMAndatoryClaims` command class to load the list of mandatory claims for the `mandatory_claims` variable

>    3. It will create `RequiredContraint` object from it

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   3. It will create `RequiredConstraint` object from it
```

Reviewer 4: You can just join the two sentences
>    2. Will call `LoadMAndatoryClaims` command class to load the list of mandatory claims for the `mandatory_claims` variable. This class will create and return `RequiredConstraint` object.

2. The `validate_restrictions` functon will call `CreateValidatorFromPolicy` to create validator with the claims mapping loaded
   1. It will call the `LoadClaimsMapping` command class to get dictionary between claim to annotation.
   2. It will create *ValidateRestrictionOneToOne* object and will return it

> 3. `ValidateResourceRestrictions` will be called with the contraints and the validator from the previous steps. This run will check the claims in the token and annotations. If anything wrong like a missing claim in the host annotation or claim with invalid value and error with be thrown and the authentication request will be denied.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. `ValidateResourceRestrictions` will be called with the constraints and the validator from the previous steps. This run will check the claims in the token and annotations. If anything wrong like a missing claim in the host annotation or a claim has an invalid value, an error with be thrown and the authentication request will be denied.
```

at this step do we check the integrity of the claim or just run some validations that they exist?

Reviewer 4: what would be an example of an invalid value?

Author: for example annotation of host is 
authn-jwt/gitlab/ref: master
and ref claim is something else like "develop" so we should fail authentication

Reviewer 4: an example would help then

## Backwards Compatibility
[//]: # "How will the design of this solution impact backwards compatibility? Address how you are going to handle backwards compatibility, if necessary"

> Token schema is not mandatory therfore the JWT authentication will remain backwards compatible.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Token schema is not mandatory therefore the JWT authentication will remain backwards compatible.
```

## Affected Components

[//]: # "List all components that will be affected by your solution"
[//]: # "[Conjur Open Source/Enterprise, clients, integrations, etc.]"
[//]: # "and elaborate on the impacts. This list should include all"
[//]: # "downstream components that will need to be updated to consume"
[//]: # "new releases as these changes are implemented"

* JWT Authenticator

## Delivery Plan

| Mission                                          | Estimation |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ---------- |
| Support mandatory claims                         | 5 SP       |
| Support claims mapping                           | 5 SP       |
| Add status checks for token schema configuration | 2 SP       |

> | Add Cucumber tests for token schema              | 5 SP       |

Reviewer 4: what about a security review by Sec Champion and the team? _Especially_ since we are dealing with authentication

Reviewer 4: I would highly advice that the code review is conducting live with the group to evaluate the areas of vulnerability and the sec boundary

Reviewer 2: What about the following sections:
Demo , Docs, Security

Author: There is nothing to write there so why to add empty sections?

## Delivery Plan

TODO

## Open Questions
[//]: # "Add any question that is still open. It makes it easier for the reader to have the open questions accumulated here instead of them being acattered along the doc"

* How the `claims_mapping` should look like
  * Option 1: A dictionary
    `{ref: branch, sub: job}`

>   * Option 2: Just the paris

Reviewer 4: paris?

`pairs`?

    `ref:branch, sub:job`

## Definition of Done

- Solution designed is approved 
- Test plan is reviewed
- Acceptance criteria have been met
- Tests are implemented according to test plan 

> - The behaviour is documented in Conjur Open Source and Enterprise

Reviewer 4: not only that, we need to check that the flow works according to docs
